Don’t go for what you know you can get. Go for what you really want 
Responsibility can never be given. It can only be taken 

If we think of defeat, that is what we will get. If we are undecided, nothing will happen to us. We must just pick something great to do and do it. Never do we think of failure at all, for as we think now, that is what we will get 

No action can be performed successfully without a clear result in view.

The secret of success is conviction and persistence.

What makes one luckier is the good that he has done to others. It comes back to him. A man doesn’t become lucky by doing wrong. He becomes lucky because he has done good to others and that good comes back to him. And now he is lucky.

It is the purity of man’s heart and mind, and his innocent and faithful approach to action with the purpose of all good to everyone, which really succeeds in yielding maximum results with minimum effort. 

You are the master of all the laws of nature if you know the transcendental field.

The golden gate to peace in life is the experience of bliss, and it is easy for everyone to acquire this great glory and live it throughout life.

By enlivening this most basic level of life, Transcendental Meditation is that one simple procedure which can raise the life of every individual and every society to its full dignity, in which problems are absent and perfect health, happiness, and a rapid pace of progress are the natural features of life.

A comfortable and regulated life is needed for fastest pace of evolution.

Naturalness is the basis of effectiveness.

Transcendental Meditation opens the awareness to the infinite reservoir of energy, creativity, and intelligence that lies deep within everyone. 

In the field of knowledge is all possibility.

Fulfilment is structured in achievement, Achievement is structured in action, Action is structured in thinking, Thinking is structured in knowledge, Knowledge is structured in consciousness.

Life is all business. Spend your energy to get joy, happiness, evolution, and to gain more ability to enjoy. In this field we spend our energy. We never use our time, energy, speech, or ability to do something that doesn’t help us grow and improve our life. It’s not worth it.

Whatever we put our attention on, will grow stronger in our life.

Life finds its purpose and fulfillment in the expansion of happiness.

The important thing is this: to be able, at any moment, to sacrifice what we are for what we could become.

We must take situations as they are. We must only change our mental attitudes towards them.

Success in anything is through happiness.

Keep your desire turning back within and be patient.
Allow the fulfilment to come to you.
Gently resist the temptation to chase your dreams into the world;
pursue them in your heart until they disappear into the Self, and leave them there.
It may take a little self-discipline, be simple, be kind, stay rested.
Attend to your own inner-health and happiness.
Happiness radiates like the fragrance from a flower and draws all good things towards you.
Allow your love to nourish yourself as well as others.
Do not strain after your needs of life - it is sufficient to be quietly alert and aware of them.
In this way life proceeds more naturally, effortlessly.
Life is here to enjoy.
Decide what you want and don't think of the intermediary conditions. When Nature works for us we should want what we want and Nature will work it out for us.

If we think of defeat, that's what we'll get. If we are undecided then nothing will happen for us. 
We must just pick something GREAT to do, and then DO it. 
Never think of failure at all, for as we think now, that's what we'll get.

There is nothing in the cosmos, either in the material plane or the spiritual plane which cannot be directly cognized.

Competition is for the competent.

When the elephant decides to walk through the village, all the dogs come out and bark.


Doubts are the dry rot of life. Doubts are death.
Enjoy your life and be happy. 
Being happy is of the utmost importance. 
Success in anything is through happiness. 
More support of nature comes from being happy. 
Under all circumstances be happy, even if you have to force it a bit to change some long standing habits. 
Just think of any negativity that comes to you as a raindrop falling into the ocean of your bliss. 
You may not always have an ocean of bliss, but think that way anyway and it will help it come. 
Doubting is not blissful and does not create happiness. 
Be happy, healthy, and let all that love flow through your heart.
It is the focus on the highest ideal day after day that saves life from being wrapped up in small whirlwinds.

All freedom to man, but freedom is useful when we know what life is, when we know what past is, what present is, when we know how to go about things, not that every man should be left to experiment by himself.
Well, you see, it is like this. Absolutely everything is fixed, and absolutely everything can be changed at any time.

Decide what you want and don't think of intermediary conditions. 
When Nature works for us, we should want what we want and Nature will work it out for us.
In Thy fullness, my Lord, 
Filled with thy grace, 
For the purpose of union with Thee 
And to satisfy and glorify Thy creation, 
With thanks to Thee with all our hearts 
And with all our love for Thee, 
With all adoration for all Thy blessings 
We accept thy gift as it has come to us. 
The food is Thy blessing and in Thy service 
We accept in all gratitude, my Lord.

Naturalness is the basis of effectiveness.
We have an infinite number of reasons to be happy, and a serious responsibility not be serious.

About humility we speak with an analogy: When the branches are full of fruit, they just bow down.

What we have been saying from the beginning of the Movement has been unbelievable but it has come to be believed. We have been impossible right from the beginning and we must continue to be impossible because we are raising a voice against suffering which has been considered to be the nature of life. It is our joy to be considered impossible - and it is our greater joy to make the impossible a living reality.

If you want to pay off your debts, it pays to increase your earning power.
Life is bliss.

Man is born to enjoy.
Human nervous system is the greatest gift of the creator.

Love opens all doors, no matter how closed they may be, no matter how rusty from lack of use. Your work is to bring unity and harmony, to open all doors which have been closed for a long time. Have patience and tolerance. Open your heart all the time.

Personal love is concentrated universal love.
Love in the heart of man is a shrine to God on Earth.
If a man is able to submit himself to nature, then nature will react to his needs. Almighty nature is all powerful and all loving, for the laws of nature are for the creation and evolution of all beings and creatures throughout the cosmos. There is no greater kindness than the kindness of nature.

Do not base your life on the likings and dislikings or whims of others. What you are in life - whether you enjoy or suffer - it is your own responsibility. Be regular in your meditation and do not postpone for a later date your striving for God consciousness.

Do not oppose because in opposing the tenderness of the feeling level is crushed. 
All action should be to nourish the fine feeling developed in the practice of the TM sidhi program. 
That is why we say Speak the Truth but see that you are speaking delicately. 
Do not speak non-truth and do not speak in a non sweet way, so that the feeling is nourished. 
The whole effect of activity is to enrich the feeling of the other. 
Be as delicate as possible. 
If communication accomplishes something on the gross but damages something on the level of feeling then it is a spiritual loss! 
The feeling is more important for life. 
Nourishment of the feeling level is the basis for growth of the spiritual holistic value. 
Delicate behaviour on the surface should be such as to nourish, uphold and enhance the Transcendental value where feelings merge into a common source. 
Do not oppose. 
Opposition is dangerous to immortality.

Nature knows best how to organise.

Know what you want, decide when you want it, figure your plan of action, follow through on it, and never doubt.

Unless an action is rightly thought out and its steps rightly planned, every stage of its performance will probably remain vague and therefore unsatisfactory for the doer and all those concerned.

Problems are all in your head.

All problems in life arise from some weakness of mind. All weakness of mind is due to the mind's ignorance of its own essential nature, which is universal and the source of infinite energy and intelligence. ... In order to root out any problem of life it is only necessary to be brought out of ignorance, to be brought to knowledge.

Problems are not solved on the level of problems. Analysing a problem to find its solution is like trying to restore freshness to a leaf by treating the leaf itself, whereas the solution lies in watering the root.

We are born only to bless, not to punish. 
This you should never forget. 
We should always see good things in others - very important. 
We are not in a position to criticize anyone. 
The existence of enemies means for us that our friendliness has not been sufficient enough. 
'God helps those who help themselves.' - it's a very true saying. 
We are aware of darkness but for our own community we want to have Enlightenment.

The purpose of life is the expansion of happiness.

The formula for producing maximum results is to disregard the obstacles and negative influences which offer resistance to the performance of action. The doer should engage in action and continue until the desired results are achieved. When the standard of consciousness is raised through the process of meditation, the action performed at that higher level of life energy and intelligence will have an overriding influence on karma from the past and will produce maximum results. 
This is how, by the regular practice of Transcendental Meditation supplemented by the power of charity and virtuous deeds, the negative influence of past karma can be counteracted and the path of present karma smoothed. Then the action will be performed without resistance or obstacle, yielding maximum results. 
This is how, by the power of present action or karma, destiny is controlled. Herein lies the full meaning of the saying that man is a master of his own destiny.


Silence vibrating is Creation. Silence flowing is Love. Silence shared is Friendship. Silence seen is Infinity. Silence heard is Adoration. Silence expressed is Beauty. Silence maintained is Strength. Silence omitted is Suffering. Silence allowed is Rest. Silence recorded is Scripture. Silence preserved is Our Tradition. Silence given is Initiating. Silence received is Joy. Silence perceived is Knowledge. Silence stabilized is Fulfillment. Silence alone is.

Sleep in the bliss of God. 
Feel love of God, Lie in the showers of his blessings. 
Let your heart melt in the love of God. 
Sleep in the love of God and in Love. 
Sleep in the warmth of Divine Grace, 
Without my words -- only in this feeling

There is nothing that can be said so certainly about stress except that the amount of rest produced will neutralise the corresponding intensity of stress.

The secret of success in business is creativity. The urgent need in business today is to develop the field of creativity that lies deep within each individual. Through Transcendental Meditation the awareness of the individual comes into contact with this field of unlimited creativity, pure consciousness, the Constitution of the Universe.

The factor of time is very vital in life. Those who have accomplished great things in the world have been those who valued time in their life. The time of life is limited and a great amount of evolution has to be accomplished for fulfilment of life. Therefore, the factor of time must be valued above everything.

A good teacher will appreciate the good qualities of his students. If one good quality is allowed to emerge, a world of good qualities will emerge from that one.

This is the whole aim of the Vedas: that no man engaged in the field of diversity--field of diversity means field of death, field of change--no man engaged in the field of change should ever be allowed to remain there all the time. He should be given the opportunity, his body and mind should be cultured so that imperishable state of eternal Being permeates all these changing phenomena in the relative world.

God grants us the faculty to open ourselves to peace. If we don't then we are responsible if wars continue.


If we are all strong, stable, we can set our sail with any wind in the world that comes along. We make up our own direction. If we are not strong, we are like a leaf in the wind and the world's winds will take us where THEY wish, not where WE wish. So we meditate, EVERY DAY, REGULARLY, and gain transcendental being in our everyday life and then we are strong. When we are all infused with Being, we need not think which course is right, we just take the one that is automatically. Being is the wind-resister and the sail-setter...

It is the responsibility of the older generation to advise the young, to tell the child what is right and wrong. Even if they do not want to listen to follow our direction, it is right to tell them.

In Thy presence, my Lord, filled with Thy grace, 
and for the purpose of union with Thee 
I am starting Yoga Asanas. 
Grant me good health, energy, and efficiency in life. 
I feel Thy grace, Thy divine presence.

